docs: add google integration (#4382)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Integrations/Google/integrations-setup-google-oauth-langflow.md

---

> title: "Setup Google OAuth for Langflow Integration"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Integrate Google OAuth with Langflow"
```

slug: /integrations-setup-google-oauth-langflow
sidebar_position: 3
description: "A comprehensive guide on creating a Google OAuth app, obtaining tokens, and integrating them with Langflow's Google components."
---

import TOCInline from '@theme/TOCInline';

# Integrate Google OAuth for Langflow

Langflow supports [Google OAuth](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2) for seamless integration with the following Google products.

- **Gmail Loader**
   Loads emails from Gmail using the provided credentials.
- **Google Drive Loader**
   Loads documents from Google Drive using provided credentials.
- **Google Drive Search**
   Searches Google Drive files using provided credentials and query parameters.

To set up Google OAuth, create an OAuth app in Google Cloud, obtain the necessary credentials and access tokens, and add them to Langflow’s Google components.

## Create an OAuth Application in Google Cloud {#5b8981b15d86192d17b0e5725c1f95e7}

1. Navigate to the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).

> 2. Click **Select a project** to choose an existing projec, or create a new project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Select a project** to choose an existing project, or create a new project.
```

![OAuth Consent Screen](/img/google/setup-oauth-consent-screen.png)

6. Ensure you **publish** your app if it’s not restricted to internal use.
7. To create an **OAuth Client ID**, navigate to **Credentials** and select **Create Credentials** > **OAuth Client ID**.
8. Choose **Desktop app** as the application type.

9. Click **Create**. A Client ID and Client Secret are created. Download the credentials as a JSON file to your local machine and save it securely.

![OAuth Client ID and Secret](/img/google/create-oauth-client-id.png)

---

## Retrieve Access and Refresh Tokens

With your OAuth application configured and your credentials JSON file created, follow these steps to authenticate the Langflow application.

1. Create a new project in Langflow.
2. Add a **Google OAuth Token** component to your flow.
3. Input in the field **Credentials File** on the Google OAuth Token component, the JSON file containing the Client ID credentials you downloaded from Google in the [previous steps](#5b8981b15d86192d17b0e5725c1f95e7).
4. Click the **Play** button in the **Google OAuth Token** component to authenticate your application.

> When the component code is executed, a new tab may open in the browser to authenticate your application using your Google Cloud account. You must authenitcate with the account where you created the OAuth credentials for your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the component code is executed, a new tab should open in the browser to authenticate your application using your Google Cloud account. You must authenticate with the account where you created the OAuth credentials for your application.
```

If a new tab does not open automatically, check the Langflow **Logs** for the Google authentication URL. Open this URL in your browser to complete the authentication. Only after authenticating will the JSON token be generated.

5. After successful authentication, your Langflow application can now request and refresh tokens for your application. These tokens enable Langflow to interact with Google services on your behalf and execute the requests you’ve specified.
By default, token validity is managed by Google’s servers. In Langflow, tokens refresh automatically after initial authentication. However, if your application is inactive for an extended period, the tokens may expire, requiring you to re-authenticate to resume use in Langflow.

## Configure Google Components in Langflow

In this example, use the **Google Drive Loader** component to load a text file hosted on Google Drive, translate the text to Spanish, and return it to a chat output.

> For a pre-built example of this flow, download this JSON file to your local machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a pre-built example of this flow, download the <a href="./files/Google_Drive_Docs_Translations_Example.json" download>Google Drive Document Translation Example Flow JSON</a> to your local machine.
```

> - Flow Google Drive Docs Translations Example -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   (<a href="./files/Google_Drive_Docs_Translations_Example.json" download>Download link</a>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Hi @mendonk Could you check the changes? https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/pull/4382/commits/0ae39d163900b731433691ab45cdbdeb3676cd24

---
title: Integrate Google OAuth with Langflow
slug: /integrations-setup-google-oauth-langflow
sidebar_position: 3
description: "A comprehensive guide on creating a Google OAuth app, obtaining tokens, and integrating them with Langflow's Google components."
---

import TOCInline from '@theme/TOCInline';

Langflow integrates with [Google OAuth](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2) for authenticating the [Gmail loader](/components-data#gmail-loader), [Google Drive loader](components-data#google-drive-loader), and [Google Drive Search](/components-data#google-drive-search) components.

Learn how to create an OAuth app in Google Cloud, obtain the necessary credentials and access tokens, and add them to Langflow’s Google components.

## Create an OAuth Application in Google Cloud {#5b8981b15d86192d17b0e5725c1f95e7}

1. Navigate to the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).

2. Click **Select a project**, and then click **New Project** to create a new project.

![OAuth Client ID and Secret](/img/google/create-a-google-cloud-project.gif)

> 3. To enable APIs for the project, select **APIs & Services** and click **Library**. Enable the APIs you need for your project. For example, if your flow uses the Google Drive component, enable the Google Drive API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To enable APIs for the project, select **APIs & Services**, and then click **Library**. Enable the APIs you need for your project. For example, if your flow uses the Google Drive component, enable the Google Drive API.
```

4. To navigate to the OAuth consent screen, click **APIs & Services**, and then click **OAuth consent screen**.
5. Populate your OAuth consent screen with the application name, user support email, required [scopes](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/scopes), and authorized domains.
6. To create an **OAuth Client ID**, navigate to **Clients**, and then click **Create Client**.
7. Choose **Desktop app** as the application type, and then name your client ID.
8. Click **Create**. A Client ID and Client Secret are created. Download the credentials as a JSON file to your local machine and save it securely.

![OAuth Client ID and Secret](/img/google/create-oauth-client-id.gif)

---

## Retrieve Access and Refresh Tokens

With your OAuth application configured and your credentials JSON file created, follow these steps to authenticate the Langflow application.

1. Create a new project in Langflow.
2. Add a **Google OAuth Token** component to your flow.
3. In the **Credentials File** field of the Google OAuth Token component, enter the path to your **Credentials File**, the JSON file containing the Client ID credentials you downloaded from Google in the previous steps.

> 4. To authenticate your application, in the **Google OAuth Token** component, click the **Play** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. To authenticate your application, in the **Google OAuth Token** component, click **Play**.
```

2. To import the downloaded JSON to Langflow, click **Options**, and then select **Import**.
3. In the **Credentials File** field of the Google OAuth Token component, enter the path to your **Credentials File**, the JSON file containing the Client ID credentials you downloaded from Google in the previous steps.
4. In the Google Drive loader component, in the `JSON String of the Service Account Token` field, enter the JSON string containing the token returned in the output of the Google OAuth Token component.

The example flow includes a **Parse data** component to convert the `data` output of the Google OAuth Token component to the `text` input of the JSON Cleaner component.

5. To allow the Langflow component to access the file in Google Drive, copy the Google Drive File ID from the document's URL.
:::info
The file ID is located between `/d/` and `/edit` in a Google Drive document's URL.
For example, in the URL `https://drive.google.com/file/d/1a2b3c4D5E6F7gHI8J9klmnopQ/edit`, the File ID is `1a2b3c4D5E6F7gHI8J9klmnopQ`.
:::
6. In the Google Drive loader component, in the **Document ID** field, paste the document URL.

> 7. Click the **Chat output** component, click the **Play** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Click the **Chat output** component, and then click **Play**.
```
